Ping array is an array used in toxcore to store data for pings. It enables the
storage of arbitrary data that can then be retrieved later by passing the 8
byte ping id that was returned when the data was stored. It also frees data
from pings that are older than a ping expiring delay set when initializing the
array.

Ping arrays are initialized with a size and a timeout parameter. The size
parameter denotes the maximum number of entries in the array and the timeout
denotes the number of seconds to keep an entry in the array.

Adding an entry to the ping array will make it return an 8 byte number that
can be used as the ping number of a ping packet. This number is generated by
first generating a random 8 byte number, dividing then multiplying it by the
total size of the array and then adding the index of the element that was
added. This generates a random looking number that will return the index of
the element that was added to the array. This number is also stored along with
the added data and the current time (to check for timeouts). Data is added to
the array in a cyclical manner (0, 1, 2, 3... (array size - 1), 0, 1, ...). If
the array is full, the oldest element is overwritten.

To get data from the ping array, the ping number is passed to the function to
get the data from the array. The modulo of the ping number with the total size
of the array will return the index at which the data is. If there is no data
stored at this index, the function returns an error. The ping number is then
checked against the ping number stored for this element, if it is not equal
the function returns an error. If the array element has timed out, the
function returns an error. If all the checks succeed the function returns the
exact data that was stored and it is removed from the array.

Ping array is used in many places in toxcore to efficiently keep track of sent
packets.
